This looks to be the object
that holds the properties and
methods I want to add to something.
So how is it doing this?
Oh look here.
Extend jQuery itself if only
one argument is passed.
So if there's only one argument
the target becomes this.
And this keyword is going to point
to the jQuery object, because this
is a method on the jQuery object.
And so, this will be jQuery.
All right, so that makes sense.
If I pass only one parameter
to the extend function,
it will extend the object
itself that it's calling on.
Got that?
All right, so this is gonna extend jQuery.
So it adds some more methods.
Well here's some interesting ones isArray.
Remember we said it's difficult
to tell if something's an array.
So jQuery has that internally.
Is numeric does some kind of
neat trick with parse float.
So we're not getting into all of this but
understand that there are tricks and
things you could borrow, right.
You could borrow the isArrays and
isNumerics, if you needed to for
your project.
And this is probably really good code.
Because a whole lot of
people have read this code,
managed this code, updated this code.
This is probably the best
isNumeric you could do right now.
Okay, let's see what else.
Is it empty?
Is it plain?
I'm just gonna skip past
a lot of this stuff.
We have a makeArray, we have an inArray.
So just lots of things.
The jQuery uses internally.
Here's a deeper map function kind of
like the function that we made so
it has it's own mapper.
Oh hey, look at this.
This is interesting.
A class2type.
Array, really an object.
It takes all of these names,
which are standard names in JavaScript,
as a string and then splits them,
which is a JavaScript function to
create an array on a delimiter.
So it says split on a space,
wherever you see a space and
make each of those things
its own item in an array.
And then it's concatenating oh that
bracket object and then end bracket.
So this is used to understand,
to help us figure out what something is.
By calling two string you get this.
Bracket object in bracket that we
saw with arrays, remember that?
And so, that way you can definitely figure
out what something is, that's neat.
Let's see what else we have,
well what's this?
Sizzlejs, a CSS Selector Engine, and
its Sizzle is its own variable.
Well, wait a minute.
This is another immediately
invoked function that I'm passing
a global object to.
This is a whole other
engine inside of jQuery.
Wait a minute, sizzlejs.com,
let's go look at that for a second.
Sizzlejs.com, a pure
JavaScript CSS selector engine designed
to be easily dropped in a host library.
So inside of jQuery is an entire
other library called Sizzle
that does all of the give you a string
to find things in the HTML part.
So that string that I passed the selector,
that's using Sizzle to do that.
So that's interesting.
I can have an immediately invoked function
expression inside an immediately invoked
function expression.
And I can sit whole other
libraries inside my library.
So jQuery has Sizzle sitting inside of it.
Alright well we're not
interesting in how Sizzle works,
but that's good to know, right?
That's an interesting pattern.
Did you know that?
That there's an entire other library
inside jQuery that's doing this.
Let's see if we can.
I'm just gonna look for
the word jQuery to see if I can find
the end of all this Sizzle code.
There are just comments inside Sizzle
referencing some jQuery stuff,
but they're just comments.
Not part of the code.
Looks like I'm still oh,
I just found the end, look.
Return Sizzle and then it ends
the immediately invoked function for
the Sizzle library and
passing the window object to that
immediately invoked function.
Alright so that's the end of Sizzle.
And then I'm getting some references
to the stuff that Sizzle created,
that it put on the global object,
probably.
Yeah, so
jQuery.find is really just Sizzle.
They're pointing to the same memory space,
the same function.
So jQuery is using that Sizzle library.
So, good to know.
Let's keep going.
Let's see what else we can find.
We have some more properties.
We have some more spots where it's using
extend and adding some properties.
We're not too worried about that.
Oh, hey.
Initialize a jQuery object.
All right so
let's see how this object is being made,
we're still confused about
that .fn.init and there it is.
Okay, so this is the constructor function
that's calling new jQuery that
fn.emit way at the top remember?
So, here's that function constructor.
It takes a selector and it has some
properties just managing different usages.
For example, if I try to pass null or
undefined to this function and
let's see what else.
I'm just gonna skip past what it actually
does because I'm interested in how this
function constructor works.
Works.
So there's the end of
the function constructor.
But it's doing something weird.
It's returning a value.
Remember we said that calling new
operator creates a new empty object.
And that's what's returned as long as
you don't return a value yourself.
So it's calling new on a function and
then returning a value.
Isn't that wrong?
Well let's see.
What is it returning?
It's returning .makeArray and
passing this.
Well this is pointing to what?
If I'm using a function as
a function constructor.
What is it this variable when I'm
using a function with a new keyword.
It's that empty object that's created
by the new operator, remember?
Then I can use this dot so
I'm using this dot everywhere,
jQuery's using this to update that empty
object created by the new operator.
And then passing it by reference
to some makeArray function.
I think we saw that already.
Yeah there it is.
And it's returning the results of that.
And results is this.
So it's taking that empty
object which is results,
doing some things with it, converting
it to an array, and then returning it.
So that's interesting.
So it took my empty object, made it into
an array of sorts, and then returned that.
So it's not really getting in
the way of the function constructor.
Cuz it's still giving
me back my empty object
that was created with the new operator,
it's just doing some stuff to it first.
So you could, potentially,
take this variable, pass it around
to other functions to do things to it and
return it from a function constructor.
As long as you're still returning the same
object created by the new operator
you aren't really getting in the way
of that new operator feature.
Get that?
If I just did nothing it would
return to this variable.
And instead I'm messing around
with the this variable.
And then returning it.
So it's kind of the same thing.
The JavaScript engine would
return this variable anyway.
The this variable, right there.
So this just does some things to it first.
Alright, so that makes sense.
See how we learned something just there?
If your eyes are starting to cross as
we're trying to just look at all of this
code stop and don't get so bogged down
in what each of these things is doing,
what each of these properties and
methods are doing.
We're looking at structure.
We just learned something.
It's okay to return a value
from a function constructor.
As long as what I'm returning
is the same as this variable.
I can use the same pattern successfully
because the prototype has
been set up properly.
All right, so
I'm a little confused by this line here.
This seems pretty important.
Give the init function the jQuery
prototype for later instantiation.
Hey well wait a minute.
This init right here.
I scroll up.
There it is.
Init is just pointing to jQuery.fn.init.
So same memory spot, same function.
They're both pointing to this function in
memory and all functions get a prototype.
And, this is actually the new
object that I'm creating,
cuz it's actually calling
new jQuery.fn.init.
So this will be the prototype of
any objects I create from the init
function constructor.
But it's pointing that prototype.
Well wait, remember fn was the prototype
property of the jQuery object.
Oh wait a minute.
Okay so when we looked at this object,
the object that's outputted from jQuery
we're a bit confused because it's
jQuery.fn.init, instead of just a jQuery.
But all of these cool
properties are sitting where?
Remember?
It's sitting on the jQuery.prototype,
that has a whole bunch of stuff.
So I'll go back,
search for init.prototype.
Even though I'm creating a new object
inside this init function constructor,
I'm making sure that
that object's prototype,
any new object created with that init,
which I'm doing, let's see,
here I'm creating a new object with
that init function constructor.
Because this function
cause new jQuery.fn.init,
it's prototype is the same memory
spot as that jQuery.prototype.
So all I'm basically saying is
make sure that any objects that
come back from this function constructor
have access to all of the properties and
methods on this object right here.
I'm overriding the prototype.
I guess that makes it nicer,
cleaner code, right?
I don't have to call the new
operator when I use jQuery.
Instead this calls a function
that then calls a function constructor,
creating a new object.
But that new object has access to
all the properties and methods here.
And instead of always in this jQuery
code type in jQuery.fn.init.something,
it's just the prototype of
the jQuery object itself.
All right, so that's a neat trick to
be able to avoid having to use the new
keyword out where I'm
using this library itself.
Think about that for a bit.
I'm going to back up to the top and
make sure we get this.
Because I like this pattern.
This is the function I'm
actually calling when I do this.
I'm passing a string.
The string is the selector, and then
what it's giving me back is a new object
created with the new keyword
calling this function right there.
See that?
This is a function constructor.
A function constructor creates a brand new
empty object with the new keyword and then
points the prototype of that object to
the .prototype property of this function.
So, there's my function
that's actually called.
And way down here,
we make sure that that prototype property
is this object I've already created
with all kind of properties and methods.
It's a neat pattern.
Now here's the thing I want you
to think about for a second.
Is there anything that we've seen so
far in examining the structure
of one of the most famous
JavaScript libraries there is,
is there anything we've seen so far
that's beyond our ability to understand?
Is there anything we've seen so far that
we haven't seen before in this course?
No.
Now it may be some clever
ideas using these concepts,
but the concepts themselves
we can understand and
do our best to figure out
the clever ideas that are in here.
You starting to understand,
are you starting to get it?
A little bit of thought.
And you can learn something in this
deep source code because you understand
the basic concepts, the fundamental
concepts, the fundamental advanced ideas.
That we've covered.
This is an open source education.
We're taking the fundamental ideas and
figuring out neat ways to play with them.
All right, let's keep going.
This is fun.
Alright.
So jQuery which you may have used over and
over again, we're seeing how it
really works just for a bit here.
We're adding a whole
bunch more properties.
See that using using extend again,
we're not gonna worry about what these do.
Features, features, features.
There's a .each, so
it's doing something with these functions,
and there's the function
that it's doing it with.
So It's a function there that
it's doing on each of these.
We're not going to worry
about that either.
In fact, we're not going
to worry about any of this,
this is just all features at this point.
These are just properties and
methods that do things.
And we're not worried about what jQuery
does on every level we're worried about
it's structure.
So let's see.
We're still going, and I see a whole
lot of functions and methods.
So, where I'm really looking for,
what would I really look?
Like to understand.
Is there any of these functions and
methods that I can learn
something special from?
Let's think about one aspect of
jQuery that I really like and
let's see if we can
figure out how it works.